Microsoft Starts Forced Feature Updates on Windows 10 1809
Evil Corp Hackers Charged For Stealing Over $100 Million
UK Retailer Sweaty Betty Hacked to Steal Customer Payment Info
BMW Infiltrated by Hackers Hunting for Automotive Trade Secrets
Moscow Cops Sell Access to City CCTV, Facial Recognition Data
Clever Microsoft Phishing Scam Creates a Local Login Form
FBI Recommends Securing Your Smart TVs and IoT Devices
The Week in Ransomware - December 6th 2019 - 'We have seen better days'
Most Downloaded
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
360 Total Security
Junkware Removal Tool
Virus Removal Guides
Most Viewed
Remove the Full System Care PUP
Remove the Searchpowerapp.com Search Redirect
Remove the Power App Chrome Extension
Remove the HD Video Player PUP
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Fix a Missing api-ms-win-crt-runtime-l1-1-0.dll DLL in Windows
How to Use Windows Defender to Scan a Folder for Malware
How to Find the Windows Defender Version Installed in Windows 10
How to Enable the Windows 10 Tamper Protection Security Feature
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
File Database
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
New Linux Vulnerability Lets Attackers Hijack VPN Connections
New Linux Vulnerability Lets Attackers Hijack VPN Connections
Sergiu Gatlan
December 5, 2019
Security researchers found a new vulnerability allowing potential attackers to hijack VPN connections on affected *NIX devices and inject arbitrary data payloads into IPv4 and IPv6 TCP streams.
CVE-2019-14899
The vulnerability is known to impact most Linux distributions and Unix-like operating systems including FreeBSD, OpenBSD, macOS, iOS, and Android.
A currently incomplete list of vulnerable operating systems and the init systems they came with is available below, with more to be added once they are tested and found to be affected:
All VPN implementations are affected
"Additionally, we are able to determine the exact seq and ack numbers by counting encrypted packets and/or examining their size. This allows us to inject data into the TCP stream and hijack connections," the researchers said.
Attacks exploiting CVE-2019-14899 work against OpenVPN, WireGuard, and IKEv2/IPSec, but the researchers are still testing their feasibility against Tor.
They also note that the VPN technology used does not seem to be of importance since the attacks worked during their tests even when the responses they got from targets were encrypted, given that the size of the packets and the number of packets sent was enough to find the type of data packets that were being delivered through the encrypted VPN tunnel.
This attack did not work against any Linux distribution we tested until the release of Ubuntu 19.10, and we noticed that the rp_filter settings were set to “loose” mode. We see that the default settings in sysctl.d/50-default.conf in the systemd repository were changed from “strict” to “loose” mode on November 28, 2018, so distributions using a version of systemd without modified configurations after this date are now vulnerable. Most Linux distributions we tested which use other init systems leave the value as 0, the default for the Linux kernel.
released after November 28, 2018
Given this, all Linux distributions using a systemd version with default configurations after this date are vulnerable.
It's important to note though that, despite some distros with specific systemd versions being vulnerable, the flaw is known to impact a variety of init systems and it is not only related to systemd as shown by the list of affected OSs available above.
AWS VPN products
Mitigation is possible
Mitigation is possible according to the researchers and it can be potentially achieved by turning reverse path filtering on, by using bogon filtering —filtering bogus (fake) IP addresses — or with the help of encrypted packet size and timing.
These are the steps needed to run an attack designed to exploit this vulnerability and hijack a target's VPN connection:
The research team is planning to publish a paper with an in-depth analysis of this vulnerability and its implications but only after finding an adequate workaround.
Related Articles:
Dozens of VNC Vulnerabilities Found in Linux, Windows Solutions
NVIDIA Patches Severe Flaws in Mercedes Infotainment System Chips
Ubuntu Linux Gets Intel Microcode Update to Fix CPU Hangs
Actively Exploited StrandHogg Vulnerability Affects Android OS
Android Camera App Bug Lets Apps Record Video Without Permission
Vulnerability
Sergiu Gatlan
Warthog-Fan
 - 1 day ago
It looks like as many people are switching to Linux to avoid using Windows 10 we may be seeing more malware directed at Linux systems, whereas up until now, the Linux user base was so small that it wasn't worth the hackers' time to try to infiltrate.
 - 1 day ago
I think a crap ton of the internet is Linux/*NIX servers are mostly on it because it’s more secure than windows... & a lot of people use their phones/tablets which is a form of it too... so...
MadScientist42
 - 1 day ago
 - 46 minutes ago
That's not correct. Devuan, Slackware, Android, the BSDs, and iOS all have this in common: None use systemd (the last two aren't even Linux). This problem is clearly more profound than your assertion! The bug affects a plaethora of Unix-like operating systems, both with and without systemd (from the article). The facts are right there, the very same ones mentioned by other sources. Google, anyone?
Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
BMW Infiltrated by Hackers Hunting for Automotive Trade Secrets
Some Hardware-based Password Managers Have Poor Security
Newsletter Sign Up
BleepingComputer
Latest Downloads
Malwarebytes for Mac
Version: 4.0
Malwarebytes Anti-Malware
Version: 4.0
Version: 7.4.2.0
Version: NA
Windows Repair (All In One)
Version: 4.6.1
Newsletter Sign Up
Main Sections
Virus Removal Guides
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
File Database
Forum Rules
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
About BleepingComputer
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Terms of Use
 Privacy Policy
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Register Now
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Submitting...