Skip to main content
Gaming & Culture
Mobile Site
Staff Directory
Advertise with Ars
Gaming & Culture
Front page layout
Black on white
White on black
Sign up or login to join the discussions!
Having trouble?
Sign up to comment and more

      it's not a phone—yet—but it's a linux    —

Librem 5 backers have begun receiving their Linux phones
The first Librem 5 backers have begun receiving mostly working prototype devices.
Dec 2, 2019 7:05 pm UTC
reader comments
 with 67 posters participating, including story author
Share this story
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Reddit

                      Lifting the lid off the Librem 5's box, you see the phone and a "getting started" manual.                    

                      The Librem 5's accessories nestled beneath the phone: a charging cable, headphones, and a USB wall wart.                    

                      The backplate to the Librem 5 removes easily, exposing the battery, Wi-Fi module, and cellular modem.                    

                      Removing the battery is also a trivial task. Hopefully, this means easier battery upgrades down the line: this is a 2000mAh battery, not the originally promised 3500mAh.                    

                      Powering on the Librem 5 for the first time walks you through a standard-looking welcome-and-setup process, beginning with language selection.                    
Further Reading
The Librem 5 has been “shipping” for a month—but not to backers
What the Librem 5 isn't (yet)
First of all, it's not really a "phone" yet. There's no audio when attempting to place a phone call. The cameras also don't appear to work yet. Azdle reports "installing and opening up Cheese"—Cheese is a very basic Linux video application, installed by default in many distros—"I just get a message saying 'no device found.'" There's also effectively no power management yet, so the Librem doesn't last long on battery. It takes a long time to charge as well.
reader comments
 with 67 posters participating, including story author
Share this story
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Reddit
jim.salter@arstechnica.com
login or create an account
Ars Technica
Related Stories
Sponsored Stories
Today on Ars
View Mobile Site
Advertise with us
Newsletter Signup
Join the Ars Orbital Transmission mailing list to get weekly updates delivered to your inbox.
Sign me up →
User Agreement
Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement
Ars Technica Addendum
Read our affiliate link policy
Your California Privacy Rights