Comparing Apples and Gnomes
I got my Librem 5 a few days ago and, understandably, when I tell people that their first question is, "How is it?" I always hesitate with how to answer that question because I'm not sure what people expectations are. And more of the point, I assume that most of the time they have unreasonable expectations. But, that might just be because I've done this dance before, with both the NeoFreerunner and the Firefox Flame.
To be clear, you're not going to be able to replace your current smartphone with a Librem 5 as it exists today. (There's even a couple of bugs that mean you're not going to be able to replace your current feature phone, but those are software issues that should hopefully be fixed with an update soon.) There are lots of reasons why, lack of maturity of some OS features and lack of apps being the most preeminent, but I feel like focusing on those at the moment is missing the point of the Librem 5.
The Librem 5 is the best free software phone, because it's the only one that exists right now. And that is a milestone enough that it should be commended.
Expectations
Obviously, I'd love to have this phone be 100% polished from the start, probably as much or more than just about anyone else outside of Purism. However, that was never going to happen. Creating a phone from scratch is an almost insurmountable problem, one that Purism made even harder by making the device in a way that they're expected to get a RYF certification from the FSF. The fact that they have succeeded as much as they have as a small company with extremely limited funding is simply amazing.
admitted there was a problem
directly stated there would be a delay
I hope that that the non-trolls will give them some slack too. It's hard to completely open and honest about things that don't go the way you've planned. I have first-hand experience with delivering things previously promised things late. It sucks. And it's easy to fall into the trap of convincing yourself that you're still going to hit a deadline until the very last moment. Now that hardware is starting to be delivered to backers, hopefully some of the weird unrest will die down.
So, how is it?
With all that now said, lets answer the original question.
The Hardware is Good
The design of the phone is sexy. It feels super solid. The fit & finish are much better than I was expecting after the descriptions given in the batch announcement blog post. There's a tiny bit of wiggle to the back panel, but that's really the only thing I can find to complain about it physically. The display is beautiful, the black-levels are amazing.
The Software's Foundations Are Good
There are a Couple of Significant Known Issues
"the Librem 5 hardware is sprinting around a track (when it should sit idle until you need it to sprint for a millisecond)"
The other is that call audio isn't routed to the speaker. I haven't personally hit this, I'm just using a data-only SIM and can't remember the last time I actually used a phone to make a voice call.
The cameras don't seem to be enabled yet. Installing & opening up Cheese, I just get a message saying "No device found".
And the Rest of the Software Needs Polish
The keyboard is really basic. It's just simple "button -> letter" keys. No predictions, no long-presses, no caps-lock. Notifications exist, but as far as I can tell don't seem to go anywhere once the initial pop-up disappears. (Though, this definitely exists in desktop Gnome, so I may just be missing it.) There don't seem to be many apps that are available that are made to fit the small screen size and there's no indication of which have been adapted
There's also small things like when the phone is off, the charging LED doesn't come on until I tap the power button for ~a second, but it does still charge. Or the fact that kinetic scrolling the browser has too much dampening, I can't flick to the bottom of a page like I can with any other mobile browser.
The phone is chonky. I measure it at 15.6 mm thick, 150.2 mm tall, and 75.2 mm wide. It's noticeably thick, but it's not hard to hold, definitely nicer than any of the recent ultra tall/wide flagship phones I've held recently. The chamfers of the back edges definitely help with hiding some of the bulk and give a place for your fingers to grab on on the far edge of the phone.
Other Things
My phone came with a pre-installed screen-protector (which had an additional dust cover on that), but it's clearly not made for this screen and it's not installed quite centered. It's lined up perfectly with one edge of the active display area, but it's not quite wide enough to get all the way to the other.
I can't find the Fractal (Matrix chat) app in the PureOS store. I guess it's not ready yet? I don't care if there's not E2E encryption yet, I know that's not ready. But, I run my own home server, so it makes little difference to me.
It takes 10-12 seconds of holding the power button before it gives any indication that's it turning on. It does seem to actually just wait that long because holding the button for any less time doesn't cause it to actually turn on. I'm not sure why it's so long, but it doesn't really matter since once the battery drain issue if fixed, I'll rarely be turning it off or on.
Let me be clear, one last time, even with all the issues I've talked about above, I'm blown away by what Purism has been able to accomplish. This is a much more polished product than I expected when I backed, but I mostly expected a phone that would dump me to a shell I couldn't type into because, ya know, touchscreen. But again, even the current power issues aside, the ecosystem isn't ready for someone expecting to replace a current gen Android or iOS smartphone. However, all the basics are there and it seems to be a solid foundation for the future.
Finally, I've gone back and forth on whether or not I want to post some of the current limitations of the phone because I know there are trolls who will take what I say and run with it, but I know there are people out there who just want to genuinely know how things are going. So this post so for those people. Just remember, don't feed the trolls.
More Random Pictures