This app works best with JavaScript enabled.
This week in Matrix
This Week in Matrix 2019-12-06
This Week in Matrix
Matrix Live 🎙
Status of Matrix
announced the availability of zipped hoodies
local Post Office
Dept of Spec 📜
Here's your news for what happened in spec-land last week!
Merged MSCs
MSC2367: Add reason field to all membership events
MSC2324: Facilitating early releases of software dependent on spec
MSCs in Final Comment Period
No MSCs are in FCP...
MSC2380: Matrix Media Information API
MSC2370: Resolve URL API
MSC2375: Appservice Invite States
MSC2376: Disable URL Previews
TravisR confirmed:
The spec core team is focused on implementing a bunch of MSCs so that we can make progress with the spec.
Dept of Servers 🏢
This week we've mainly been tying up loose ends on the matrix.org data centre migration. Outside of that one interesting feature to land on develop is that of configurable message retention. It means that as an admin you can set a default period after which messages will be removed from the server (a year say), what’s more the default is configurable on a per room basis via state events. Note, this feature applies to messages only, not media (on its way!). Configurable message retention will be make it into the next versioned release.
matrix-synapse-ldap3
matrix-synapse-ldap3
https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-synapse-ldap3/releases/tag/v0.1.4
Dept of Clients 📱
Alexandre Franke
off Flathub
New features:
Translation strings have been updated
Newlines now work when markdown is enabled
Account settings can be accessed again
Redaction is working again
Compatibility with HTTP-only (non HTTPS) servers has been restored
Some crashes fixed
Under the hood:
Code refactor is still going
Adrien Plazas
RiotX 0.9.1
Released v0.9.1 on Thursday! This version includes a new login flow and account creation flow. Read marker has been reworked, to simplify user experience on mobile. Also you can type and send user pills.
We are now working on room and user profiles, and matrix.to link handling. Verification in DM development is progressing well. Also we implemented a first version of breadcrumbs, to switch between recent rooms very quickly.
Riot-iOS 0.10.3 is on its way to Apple review. The release note is:
This release includes bug fixes and improvements, like:
Ask permission before opening a widget and the integration manager.
Display room name, user name and user avatar in the Jitsi conference screen.
Support Welsh and Italian languages.
https://github.com/manuroe/messagerie
Messagerie is a chat app written to test SwiftUI and Combine to make a real and, hopefully, useful app.
Messagerie misses a lot of things but it has:
Support of Matrix using SwiftMatrixSDK
Multi-account (swipe the navigation bar to switch accounts)
Dark mode and auto-sizing fonts (well, they come for free)
4 screens at the moment: a Matrix login screen, a room list, a room screen and a very early beginning of a SwiftUI text composer to post text message
This is a personal and a side project, but RiotX-iOS will probably take benefit from it.
Riot Web means Cross Signing!
Riot Web is largely focused on nudging cross-signing forward over the last week. Key verification and cross-signing setup continues to make progress. We've also fixed a few bugs and merged some accessibility improvements.
Dept of Ops 🛠
matrix-docker-ansible-deploy
matrix-docker-ansible-deploy
riot-desktop-builder docker image
docker image
Dept of Bots 🤖
msc-chatbot
msc_resolver2 is back and now isn't annoying with all new features like:
actually showing you the MSC title when it links it
not posting the same links multiple times
not posting a link when you've already linked the msc in the original message
ignoring edits
ignoring content of replies
https://github.com/anoadragon453/msc-chatbot
malobot - send or receive location messages
https://github.com/vranki/malobot/
Dept of Ping 🏓
schwukas.de
aime.lesmatric.es
room409.xyz
aryasenna.net
matrix.okeso.net
matrix.vgorcum.com
Final Thoughts 💭
#matrix-forums:permaweb.io
there is a Matrix feature which enables spoilers
That's all I know 🏁
#twim:matrix.org
Zipped Hoodies Now Available
Post Contents
Matrix Live 🎙
Dept of Status of Matrix 🌡
Dept of Spec 📜
Dept of Servers 🏢
Dept of Clients 📱
Dept of Ops 🛠
Dept of Bots 🤖
Dept of Ping 🏓
Final Thoughts 💭
That's all I know 🏁
This Week in Matrix 2019-12-06
Zipped Hoodies Now Available
This Week in Matrix 2019-11-29
Synapse 1.6.0 released
This Week in Matrix 2019-11-22
This Week in Matrix 2019-11-15
Avoiding unwelcome visitors on private Matrix servers
Client-server r0.6.0 and Identity Service r0.3.0 releases
This Week in Matrix 2019-11-08
Fun and games with certificate transparency logs
This Week in Matrix 2019-11-01
Synapse 1.5.0 released
This Week in Matrix 2019-10-26
Synapse 1.4.1 released
This Week in Matrix 2019-10-18
This Week in Matrix 2019-10-11
New Vector raises $8.5M to accelerate Matrix/Riot/Modular
This Week in Matrix 2019-10-04
matrix-appservice-slack bridge 1.0 is here!
Synapse 1.4.0 released
Getting Started
Client-Server API
Install Synapse
Develop Docs
API Playground
This week in Matrix
Security Disclosure Policy
Code of Conduct for Matrix.org
© 2019 The Matrix.org Foundation C.I.C.