Microsoft Starts Forced Feature Updates on Windows 10 1809
Evil Corp Hackers Charged For Stealing Over $100 Million
UK Retailer Sweaty Betty Hacked to Steal Customer Payment Info
BMW Infiltrated by Hackers Hunting for Automotive Trade Secrets
Moscow Cops Sell Access to City CCTV, Facial Recognition Data
Clever Microsoft Phishing Scam Creates a Local Login Form
FBI Recommends Securing Your Smart TVs and IoT Devices
The Week in Ransomware - December 6th 2019 - 'We have seen better days'
Most Downloaded
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
360 Total Security
Junkware Removal Tool
Virus Removal Guides
Most Viewed
Remove the Full System Care PUP
Remove the Searchpowerapp.com Search Redirect
Remove the Power App Chrome Extension
Remove the HD Video Player PUP
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Fix a Missing api-ms-win-crt-runtime-l1-1-0.dll DLL in Windows
How to Use Windows Defender to Scan a Folder for Malware
How to Find the Windows Defender Version Installed in Windows 10
How to Enable the Windows 10 Tamper Protection Security Feature
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
File Database
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
Disney Now Works in Linux After DRM Tweak 
Disney+ Now Works in Linux After DRM Tweak 
Lawrence Abrams
December 5, 2019
Linux users can now stream shows and movies from the Disney+ streaming service after Disney lowering the level of their DRM requirements.  
When Disney+ was first launched, Linux users who attempted to watch shows and movies were shown an error stating "Something went wrong. Please try again. If the problem persists, visit the Disney+ Help Center (Error Code 83)."
Error code 83
Yesterday, Twitter users discovered that Disney+ had suddenly started working on Linux browsers after the streaming service tweaked their DRM security levels.
BleepingComputer was able to independently test the Disney+ streaming service by watching The Mandalorian on Firefox in Ubuntu 18.04.
Streaming The Mandalorian on Firefox in Ubuntu
For all of you who have been wanting to dig into some missed Marvel and Start Wars movies, you now have plenty to watch for the weekend!
Make sure DRM is enabled in your browser
Even with Disney+ lowering the DRM requirements, users must first make sure DRM is enabled in the browser.
For example, Disney+ will not work with Firefox unless you enable the "Play DRM-controlled content" setting in the browser.
Enable the DRM setting in Firefox
If you are on Linux and Disney+ is still giving the Error code 83, make sure DRM is enabled in your browser. If not, you can switch to Firefox, which we have confirmed works.
omg! ubuntu!
Related Articles:
NVIDIA Patches Severe Flaws in Mercedes Infotainment System Chips
New Linux Vulnerability Lets Attackers Hijack VPN Connections
Ubuntu Linux Gets Intel Microcode Update to Fix CPU Hangs
Kali Linux Adds 'Undercover' Mode to Impersonate Windows 10
Dozens of VNC Vulnerabilities Found in Linux, Windows Solutions
Digital rights management
Video Streaming
Lawrence Abrams
Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
BMW Infiltrated by Hackers Hunting for Automotive Trade Secrets
Some Hardware-based Password Managers Have Poor Security
Newsletter Sign Up
BleepingComputer
Newsletter Sign Up
Main Sections
Virus Removal Guides
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
File Database
Forum Rules
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
About BleepingComputer
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Terms of Use
 Privacy Policy
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Register Now
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Submitting...