Press J to jump to the feed. Press question mark to learn the rest of the keyboard shortcuts
User account menu
I made a program that makes Debian Apt feel almost exactly like Arch Pacman!!
Software Release
u/CadenMitchell
I made a program that makes Debian Apt feel almost exactly like Arch Pacman!!
Software Release
So there I was, decking out my 13-year-old PC with a fresh install of Lubuntu, trying to install some packages. I started typing in a package command but quickly realized I had just entered a Pacman command instead of an Apt command!! This gave me an idea! I quickly began work on a Bash script that would solve this problem for good! I made a Pacman-style frontend for Apt! Seven hours well-spent! :P
So jokes aside, I actually did complete this script. I ended up needing to write it twice because I corrupted the first version of it. I've ported all the major and most common commands so far. Everything down to the help and version dialog is Pacman-like! I know this sort of only satisfies a very niche group of Linux power users but I thought I'd post this somewhere for others to try out! The source code and packaged Debian installer package are available on my GitLab!
https://gitlab.com/TriVoxel/deb-pacman
117 comments
81% Upvoted
Log in or sign up to leave a comment
controversial
So now we have a front end for a front end for a package manager.
DamnThatsLaser
It's called a wrapper
Continue this thread
Yo Dawg....
edited 3 days ago
Had a quick look at it and it looks like a good opportunity to use case statements:
case $1 in
    "-S")
        echo "option -S";;
    "-h"|"--help")
        echo "option -h or --help";;
    *)
        echo "non of the above matched";;
esac

Consider using shellcheck to check for common shell scripting issues.
CadenMitchell
Original Poster
I haven't heard of that before! Will implement it into v2.0! :-)
Continue this thread
CadenMitchell
Original Poster
Continue this thread
quantumbyte
I guess after writing that you probably remembered the apt commands anyway lol
install, remove, update, upgrade, autoremove
I think they are not so hard to remember.
27-82-41-124
Right? Also I feel the opposite of OP, I would love to type apt commands but have them converted to pacman, as a Ubuntu user who tried manjaro w/ pacman, a big factor in why I didn't stay was I couldn't stand having to learn pacman... Apt is so much more readable and friendly.
edited 3 days ago
pacman -Ql foo
Granted, his wrapper doesn't cover that, but it is one thing that always trips me up.
Continue this thread
Jacko10101010101
no but its long to write... deb could use an alias...
Continue this thread
The good thing about apt is, the commands(install, remove, etc) and modifiers(--installed as in apt list --installed) all make sense and the meaning behind is very easy to understand, unlike pacman with its  -Syuu. I mean, the hell, how should anyone know that -Sw stands for download but not install while apt does this as simple as "apt download package".
Morganamilo
how should anyone know that -Sw stands for download but not install
pacman --sync --downloadonly
I made the same thing ~one year ago.
However it supports 21 different package managers and is customizable to the core (you an add your own package manager and change the syntax of the argvs).
https://github.com/emilengler/sysget
Damn boi good work
Does it search every package manager you have installed? So if I have apt, pip, npm, flatpak will it list all the candidates?
Continue this thread
REDDITWASRIGHT
You should use getopt to parse the command line arguments.
elif [[ $1 = '-R' || $1 = '--remove' ]];then
    if [[ $2 = '--noconfirm' ]];then

-R --noconfirm
--noconfirm -R
https://www.computerhope.com/unix/bash/getopts.htm
Arch Linux Team
I'm horrified.
GlouGlouFou
By writing this script you probably learned to remember all useful apt commands. Now you don't even need your script :D
View entire discussion (117 comments)
Jan 25, 2008
All things Linux and GNU/Linux -- this is neither a community exclusively about the kernel Linux, nor is exclusively about the GNU operating system.
Using Reddit
Reddit coins
Reddit premium
Reddit gifts
Communities
Content policy
Privacy policy
Reddit Inc © 2019. All rights reserved