Microsoft Starts Forced Feature Updates on Windows 10 1809
Evil Corp Hackers Charged For Stealing Over $100 Million
UK Retailer Sweaty Betty Hacked to Steal Customer Payment Info
BMW Infiltrated by Hackers Hunting for Automotive Trade Secrets
Moscow Cops Sell Access to City CCTV, Facial Recognition Data
Clever Microsoft Phishing Scam Creates a Local Login Form
FBI Recommends Securing Your Smart TVs and IoT Devices
The Week in Ransomware - December 6th 2019 - 'We have seen better days'
Most Downloaded
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
360 Total Security
Junkware Removal Tool
Virus Removal Guides
Most Viewed
Remove the Full System Care PUP
Remove the Searchpowerapp.com Search Redirect
Remove the Power App Chrome Extension
Remove the HD Video Player PUP
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Fix a Missing api-ms-win-crt-runtime-l1-1-0.dll DLL in Windows
How to Use Windows Defender to Scan a Folder for Malware
How to Find the Windows Defender Version Installed in Windows 10
How to Enable the Windows 10 Tamper Protection Security Feature
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
File Database
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
Kali Linux Adds 'Undercover' Mode to Impersonate Windows 10
Kali Linux Adds 'Undercover' Mode to Impersonate Windows 10
Lawrence Abrams
November 29, 2019
Kali Linux 2019.4 was released last week and with it comes an 'Undercover' mode that can be used to quickly make the Kali desktop look like Windows 10.
Kali is a Linux distribution created for ethical hacking and penetration testing and is commonly used by researchers and red teamers to perform security tests against an organization.
As most people are used to seeing Windows and macOS devices being used, it may look suspicious to see a user running Kali Linux with it's distinctive dragon logo and a Linux environment in an office lobby or other public setting.
Kali Linux 2019.4
"Say you are working in a public place, hacking away, and you might not want the distinctive Kali dragon for everyone to see and wonder what it is you are doing. So, we made a little script that will change your Kali theme to look like a default Windows installation. That way, you can work a bit more incognito. After you are done and in a more private place, run the script again and you switch back to your Kali theme. Like magic!"
This mode is not a perfect replica of Windows 10, but it does a good enough job to trick a passing user. A demonstration of this new undercover mode can be seen below.
To enable the Undercover mode in Kali Linux 2019.4, you should perform these steps:
kali-undercover 
Undercover mode will be activated and your desktop will now look similar to Windows. You can now close the Terminal window.
When done using Undercover mode, you can run kali-undercover again to switch back to your normal desktop. The kali-undercover command can also be run directly from the desktop's search.
Other new features or improvements in Kali Linux 2019.4 include:
A new default desktop environment, Xfce
New GTK3 theme (for Gnome and Xfce)
Introduction of “Kali Undercover” mode
Kali Documentation has a new home and is now Git powered
Public Packaging – getting your tools into Kali
Kali NetHunter KeX – Full Kali desktop on Android
BTRFS during setup
Added PowerShell
kernel is upgraded to version 5.3.9
… Plus the normal bugs fixes and updates.
Related Articles:
NVIDIA Patches Severe Flaws in Mercedes Infotainment System Chips
Microsoft Starts Forced Feature Updates on Windows 10 1809
Disney+ Now Works in Linux After DRM Tweak 
New Linux Vulnerability Lets Attackers Hijack VPN Connections
Windows 10 Notepad on Microsoft Store is No Longer Supported
Penetration Testing
Lawrence Abrams
 - 1 week ago
bruh just change the background and change theme to cinnamon :D
StygianAgenda
 - 5 days ago
 - 4 days ago
Like I care if people know I'm running Kali. 
Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
BMW Infiltrated by Hackers Hunting for Automotive Trade Secrets
Some Hardware-based Password Managers Have Poor Security
Newsletter Sign Up
BleepingComputer
Latest Downloads
Malwarebytes for Mac
Version: 4.0
Malwarebytes Anti-Malware
Version: 4.0
Version: 7.4.2.0
Version: NA
Windows Repair (All In One)
Version: 4.6.1
Newsletter Sign Up
Main Sections
Virus Removal Guides
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
File Database
Forum Rules
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
About BleepingComputer
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Terms of Use
 Privacy Policy
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Register Now
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Submitting...